BRENNAN:
Previously on Bones...
Hold on, Zack, okay?
This is a transfer, you
understand that, correct?
I never killed the lobbyist.
I confessed because I assumed
I would if I'd been instructed,
but then last night I learned
I'm not capable of killing.
I believe you.
I think I may have found
a way to prove
that the killer wasn't Zack
based on the severity
of the stabbing.
Wow. This is conclusive.
And yet, you don't seem excited.
Well, I'm just a little worried
that this is too good
to be true.
You think I planted evidence.
I can't look at evidence that
may have been tampered with.
Then toss it.
♪ ♪
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Dr. Hodgins, you're here
earlier than usual.
What?
Oh, wait. Don't tell me
it's morning already.
Angela is going to kill me.
You've been up working all night
on Zack's case, haven't you?
Well, yeah.
What choice do I have?
His hearing is in two weeks.
You and Cam threw out
the only evidence we have
that would exonerate him.
Well, we threw it out
because your evidence
was suspect.
Do you really think that I would
falsify my work?
For a friend... yes.
I am telling you that Zack's
microbial signature
showed up nowhere on
the lobbyist's remains.
That doesn't matter.
Absence of evidence
is not proof of innocence.
- You know that as well as anyone.
- Fine. Good.
Yeah. Well, at least
I'm doing something, so.
I see.
You're implying that in the
weeks since my father's death
- I have not committed myself...
- No, no, no, no.
Doc-- Dr. Brennan, wait, please.
That...
that's not what I meant.
Dr. Hodgins, I assure you
I have examined
every piece of evidence
at least a dozen times.
And as much
as it pains me
to say... Zack's sentence
will not be overturned.
Now, we have a body
being brought in
that needs our attention.
Dr. Hodgins...
Yep.
(sighs)
Okay, guys.
You can drop it
right over there.
HODGINS:
Wow.
Talk about a...
a roll in the hay.
What? It's too early?
I don't think time of day
is really the issue.
Dr. Hodgins, if you're done
making sophomoric puns,
I need your help extricating
the remains.
Pretty fresh.
Do we have any idea
what happened?
Not a clue,
except the farmer that was
operating this thing
didn't see the body until
it was folded end over end,
then spit out of this baler.
BRENNAN: Okay.
This set of remains
has been pulverized.
Given the sheer magnitude
of the task before us,
- I need an intern immediately.
- Already on it.
I was just waiting till
the sun came up to call someone.
But who needs
a full night's sleep?
Not me.
Well, that is
patently false.
Studies show
that sleep deprivation
greatly diminishes
productivity.
Okay. So do you want me to wait
before I call someone?
What I want is assistance,
if that's not too much trouble.
Of course. I will...
get right on it.
(sighs)
(knocking on door)
AUBREY: Booth, you got a visitor,
and, uh,
FYI, he brought some
tiny cakes with him.
Uh, they're petits fours
rather than cakes, Agent Aubrey.
AUBREY: Whatever they're called,
they look delicious.
Hey.
(groans)
Uh, just a little
back thing.
Double-G. Glad you
could make it.
Agent Booth.
Anything
for an old friend.
Well, I got to say
it's an honor to finally meet
the Dr. Gordon Wyatt.
Booth says you're one hell
of a shrink,
maybe an even a better cook.
Well, thank you.
And now that I've earned
my first Michelin star,
I feel that I've earned
the right to be called...
Chef.
Oh. My apologies,
Chef Dr. Wyatt.
Just call him Gordon Gordon.
Agent Booth, um, while I'm
absolutely delighted
to be freed from the, uh,
sweltering confines
of a kitchen, you do know that
I-I haven't really practiced
any psychiatry for some time.
Oh, come on. It's just
like riding a bike.
All right? Plus,
I need you, all right?
Sweets said that you were
the only one
he trusted with his files, so.
Yes. Poor Sweets.
And I take it those are
Dr. Sweets' session notes--
All of them with-with Dr. Addy?
AUBREY: Yes.
Booth and I already read through
all of them
hoping to find something
that could exonerate Zack.
But, uh, we could definitely use
someone of your expertise.
Um, Agent Aubrey,
if you were to yield
to your desire,
rather than fight it,
I think you might be able to
return to the matter in hand.
Is it that obvious?
You're drooling
like a Great Dane.
I'll take that.
(groans)
They're for me.
Please, gentlemen,
don't fight over them.
There are plenty to go 'round.
Plenty.
WYATT: Share.
Good children share, don't they?
BRENNAN: Based on the prominent
occipital protuberance,
the victim is male.
Okay, but given that
half the skull is MIA,
I wouldn't count on
an ID any time soon.
Dr. Saroyan, again I must ask;
I need assistance.
Yes, I heard you
the first ten times,
and Rodolfo
is on his way.
Angela, until he arrives,
will you please help us
with the recovery?
Me?
Yes. You.
Uh, yeah. Okay.
Whatever you need,
honey.
Hey, Angie, do me a favor,
You find any more of these,
you let me know.
Uh. Eww.
What is that?
That is an ascaris lumbricoides.
It's a parasitic roundworm.
Yeah. And the good news
is this guy is still alive.
Okay.
I am so canceling that hay ride
with Michael Vincent.
BRENNAN:
Angela, I assure you
the worm is not indigenous
to the hay.
It most likely came from
within the victim
and vacated after death.
Whoa.
Vacated, you mean,
like came out of his...
Okay. This is so much worse
than I thought.
Hey, Cam, take a look
at this guy.
More often than not
you find worms like this
in impoverished
rural populations.
Is it just me or does
this guy look desiccated?
Well, yeah, he probably left his
human hotel five, six days ago
and has been
starving ever since.
Which would give us
approximate time of death.
Yeah.
BRENNAN: The bone osteons
in the femur are large
but sparse,
which suggests the victim
was in his late teens
to early twenties.
So we're looking at a poor,
younger man
from a rural area?
HODGINS: Probably some local farmer kid
who got drunk,
wandered into the field
and just passed out.
MONTENEGRO:
Yeah. Maybe, but then,
why was he wearing this?
Is that a ski mask?
Well, temperatures in northern
Virginia can drop below freezing
this time of year.
HODGINS: Yeah, true, but if
you're so sensitive
to cold the field
isn't necessarily
the best place to hit the hay.
Really?
That one was an accident.
I promise.
MONTENEGRO: Uh, guys.
I don't think the victim
was wearing a ski mask
because he was chilly.
♪ Bones 12x09 ♪
The Final Chapter: The Steel in the Wheels
Original Air
♪ Main Title Theme ♪ The Crystal Method
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
@elder_man
♪
AUBREY: Well, uh, did some
digging. Turns out there were
58 armed robberies
in the tristate area
during the week
that the victim was killed.
How many involved
a handgun...
Yeah, 19.
Four of those were caught,
which leaves us
with 15 unknown
masked bandits.
Let's get the
rest to the lab,
see if they can
narrow it down.
Whoa. What the
hell's going on here?
Well, you told me to
make myself at home.
Have a biscuit.
mean literally
AUBREY: Yes.
BOOTH: I didn't
make yourself at home...
Those are cookies.
Booth, go easy. He's gonna
stop making us snacks.
Did you find anything at all?
What I have
is an an inchoate, nebulous
glimmering of a case,
which involves secret societies,
cannibalistic rituals,
and a brilliant young
forensic anthropologist
who was coerced into a plot
he didn't fully comprehend.
Right. Okay, so you found
nothing
in Sweets' notebook?
My dear fellows,
that's what I'm endeavoring
to ascertain.
Why don't we endeavor
to find you a new office?
Shall we?
- All right.
- All right? You'll love it.
You want me to...
No, no. No.
No. No.
No Bobby?
No, no. It stays here.
Thank you.
Don't... touch.
Okay.
Thank you
for coming in.
So we need a-an
assembled skull,
like, yesterday.
Yeah. Give me
an hour, tops.
You have 20 minutes,
or I think Brennan
is gonna have
an aneurism.
She just lost her father.
I think her crankiness
is just a symptom
of her grief.
Yeah. I know.
I just-- I wish there
was something we could do.
Hey. Have you found an ID?
Uh, not since
I just finished
putting on my gloves.
Yeah, well,
I might have something.
I got the results
from the victim's tox screen.
No drugs, no alcohol,
but his blood
did test positive for saline.
MONTENEGRO: Saline?
Like contact solution?
Well, uh, that could suggest a
double red blood cell donation.
Double red cell?
Yeah. It's a rare
type of donation.
I do it myself, but you can
only give every four months.
Yeah. I'll talk to my contact
at the Red Cross.
Since we have the victim's age
and gender,
this could help determine ID.
30 minutes.
(elevator rings)
Dustin Doyle,
22 years old.
He lived alone in
Covington, Virginia.
He's also got
quite the record.
Multiple accounts
of breaking and entering,
petty theft, burglary.
(scoffs)
I see. So because of his past,
you don't think that he's worthy
of a proper investigation.
What? No. I'm just saying that
he had a checkered past.
And I'm saying that just because
somebody has a record
it shouldn't define
who they are.
Dr. Brennan,
just to be clear, you know
that I'm not talking about
your father here, right?
I never said that you were.
Oh, don't let me interrupt.
But I could hardly pass
this gorgeous creature
without saying hello.
Dr. Wyatt.
Mmm.
So good to see you again.
Why are you wandering around
with that cart?
Oh, well, Agent
Booth suggested
I take up residence in
the conference room,
but as you can see,
it's occupied.
AUBREY:
Yeah, sorry about that.
Booth had to go to the
chiropractor to get his back
checked out. I guess
I accidentally double-booked.
That's the victim's
mother in there.
BRENNAN:
I don't understand.
Dr. Wyatt has come all this way
to assist us,
and you and Booth
couldn't find a space
for him to work?
It was a mistake. I-I'm sorry.
It's extremely inconsiderate.
Oh, really,
it's a slight inconvenience.
One that needs
to be remedied immediately.
AUBREY:
I tell you what,
can you just give us a few
minutes and then the room
will be all yours.
Sure.
I just...
I don't understand who could
do something like this.
Dustin never did
anyone any harm.
I know that this is
difficult, Mrs. Doyle,
but can you tell us when
you last saw your son?
I don't know.
Maybe two, three weeks ago.
That job of his
made it hard for him
to get away.
To what job are you referring?
He was just promoted
to the manager
of the Waffle Shack
on Thorndike Street.
Uh, ma'am, I hate to
tell you, but, uh,
our records show
that Dustin was fired
from that job six months ago.
No, you're wrong.
He... he told me
all about that job,
how well he was doing.
BRENNAN: Ms. Doyle,
you have Parkinson's,
don't you?
Yes.
But how could you know?
The stoop of
your shoulders,
the soft tone in
your voice, the...
tremor in your hands.
Most people don't notice.
It... it would be much worse
without my medication.
Mrs. Doyle,
our records
also show that you're
currently not employed.
No.
Dustin is the one
who has been taking care of me.
Prescriptions
like yours could...
cost upwards of $5,000,
$10,000 a month.
Well, like I said...
...Dustin was an angel.
(footsteps approaching)
Dr. Saroyan.
Perfect timing. I believe I
have found something of note.
Ah, what have you got?
Cause of death?
I'm afraid not.
There are perimortem
avulsion fractures
on the inferior margin
of the C5 and the superior
margin of the C6 vertebrae.
So the victim
suffered whiplash.
Yes. That would suggest
that he was in a car crash
within hours of his death.
Interesting. I just received
ballistics on the gun
we found near the body.
It shows that it was fired
and that there was one bullet
missing from the chamber.
So between the car crash and the
fact that Dustin fired his gun,
that should help us
to narrow down
the list of possible robberies.
I'll let Booth know right away.
But before I do...
I have a little something
I'd like to give you.
What is this?
A gift. Um,
you may or may not know,
but we have a tradition
here at the Jeffersonian.
Congratulations!
Oh...
I heard you finished
your doctorate,
making you the first ever
forensic anthropologist
to be certified in both
the United States
and Cuba.
We are so fortunate
to have you, Dr. Fuentes.
Thank you.
(exhales)
Hey, Doc, sorry for
interrupting your workflow,
but this is the biggest
TV screen in the building.
Oh, no, that's fine.
I-I look forward
to a bit of telly-- it'll be
a refreshing palate cleanse
after all
the cannibalistic feasting
that I've had to consume. So,
what are we watching?
A bank robbery.
Ooh, goody!
Okay,
so of the 15 unsolved bank
robberies committed last week,
I couldn't find any
where gunfire was exchanged,
but I did find one
involving a car crash.
Uh, Bendsville
Savings and Loan--
the bank is located
ten miles from where
the body was found.
MONTENEGRO: Now,
you see the mask?
It matches the one found
on our victim.
And the robber is
approximately the same size
and build as our victim.
WYATT:
Whoa, whoa, hold on, hold on,
I was enjoying that.
Oh, I'm just...
skipping ahead
to the good parts.
Now, fortunately,
the Bendsville Police Department
all use dashboard cameras.
(indistinct talking,
tires squealing)
WYATT: I haven't had
this much excitement
since my last
baked Alaska fiasco.
Well, now we know how
Dustin got his whiplash.
I got to say, this guy
drives like a pro.
Yeah, well, look at this.
I was able
to follow the chase
through a series
of security cameras
along Main Street.
WYATT:
Big Brother may be watching,
but he certainly knows
how to make good TV.
AUBREY:
Whoa!
WYATT:
Oh!
Ding, dang, doodle!
I didn't see that coming.
It might have been unexpected,
but this crash
was not an accident.
AUBREY: He timed it perfectly,
running the stop sign.
So that second
car means
that your
fast-driving bank robber
was working with an accomplice.
MAN:
We're a small local bank.
The $60,000 that was taken
is about as much cash
as we ever have on hand.
Think someone on the inside
may have tipped him off?
Oh, no.
Like I told
those TV reporters,
everybody in town knows
that Friday's
when most people cash
their checks.
It doesn't take a genius
to figure out that
that's when we have
the most cash.
Charlene, this is Agent, um...
Aubrey. FBI.
Charlene was our brave
teller who was held up.
I'm sorry, I already spoke
to an agent about the robbery.
Yeah, this is
about a homicide.
The man who robbed you
was murdered.
Does that mean
the money's been recovered?
No, not yet.
Working theory is that
he had an accomplice
that killed him
for his cut.
Now, listen, do either of you
recognize this guy?
Man by the name
of Dustin Doyle?
No. He's certainly
not a customer.
I know every one of them
by name, Agent Audrey.
Aubrey.
This is him.
This is definitely
the man who robbed me.
I can tell.
I remember
he had nice eyes.
Nice eyes?
The guy who held you
at gunpoint?
I know it sounds strange,
but he was kind,
all things considered.
He was calm,
collected, he walked me through
everything I needed to do.
Seems to me like this may not
have been Dustin's first heist.
If it was, he certainly acted
like he knew what he was doing.
(footsteps approaching)
No, Dr. Hodgins, don't get up.
Good Lord,
don't tell me
that you've gone and
joined the Freemasons.
Well, if I did,
I wouldn't reveal it,
now, would I?
(chuckling): It's good
to see you again.
Likewise, my friend.
So to what do I owe this honor?
Hey, I thought you were taking
a stab at Sweets' files there.
Yeah, a dead end,
I'm afraid. But...
by good fortune,
I did get to see
a rather exciting video
of our deceased
bank robber being aided
by an accomplice.
And that got
the little gray cells churning.
Okay, Poirot, what do you got?
Well,
"accomplice" made me
think of "apprentice."
Apprentice as in Gormogon?
Yeah.
Now, correct me if I'm wrong,
but Dr. Addy's assertion
is that he didn't murder anyone,
but that
the previous apprentice killed
the lobbyist.
That's right, yes.
And then Gormogon killed
the apprentice
to make room for Zack.
Killed him
on the exact same night
as the lobbyist, no less.
Wait, hold on a second,
your-your gray cells
are getting me
a little lost here.
Well...
in order to exonerate Dr. Addy,
we need to find
the previous apprentice
and examine his body
for whatever evidence it may
yield up.
The previous apprentice?
Who was murdered and disposed of
God knows where
almost ten years ago.
(chuckling):
Well, unless you've got
a better suggestion...
I say let's start right away.
Dr. Saroyan.
Let me guess-- Dr. Brennan's
asking for the remains.
I'd say insisting
is more accurate.
One... second.
I just found this slug
lodged in the abdominal aorta.
Oh.
Well, judging by the size,
it's a .357 caliber.
Same as the gun we found
on Dustin Doyle.
Stippling on the
abdominal tissue
and an angled
abrasion ring
suggests he was shot
at point-blank range.
But... this is
interesting.
Take a look at
his right hand.
Gunshot residue.
Which could mean
he shot himself.
Not exactly.
I also found
torn ligaments
in the wrist.
So, likely,
there was a struggle,
and the killer turned
the victim's own gun
against him.
Excellent work.
Thank you.
You can take
the remains now.
Okay.
Dr. Fuentes, I can't
help but notice
that you're not wearing
your new jacket.
Did I get the
wrong size?
No, no. No, no, it's perfect.
Thank you again for that.
You don't think you're
getting out of this room
without an explanation, do you?
Mm.
(smacks lips)
As I'm sure you're aware,
there are very few jobs
in the D.C. area
for a forensic anthropologist.
A fact that Arastoo reminds
me of on a daily basis.
Getting my doctorate means
that it's time to move on.
And wearing the jacket
just makes it a little
too real for me.
And the fact that I'll soon
have to leave all of you.
I understand.
(sighs)
But you're still coming
to my wedding, right?
Of course.
We're family.
And I love to party.
Hey, got something
you should look at.
Oh, how's the back?
Yeah, you know, I just got
a slight adjustment, but then
it just moves the pain around.
I'll be okay.
What do you have?
Okay. Uh,
this is surveillance footage
from the bank's parking lot
on the days leading up
to the robbery.
That's Dustin's car.
Yep. He was
casing the joint
for two, three days,
which the bank manager
might have noticed
if he ever reviewed his tapes.
What about his accomplice?
Nothing yet, but I'll keep
looking. Hey, by the way,
where did Gordon Gordon
run off to? Little...
soufflé emergency?
No, I sent him off to the lab
to compare notes with Hodgins.
What's that you're
working on?
Credit card statements.
Our victim stayed
in these
hole-in-the-wall motels
once a month.
Penhook, Virginia.
Bittenger, Maryland.
Yeah.
Mocksville, North Carolina.
In each of these towns,
there was
a bank robbery
while Dustin was there.
So what I want you to do
is I want you
to call the motels,
right, and get a list
of all the other guests
that were staying there
while Dustin was staying there,
and hopefully,
we'll find the...?
Accomplice.
That's it!
Hey.
You're on it.
MONTENEGRO:
So, the accomplice's car
has no license plate on it.
SAROYAN: Yeah, and those windows
are too tinted
to give us an I.D.
What about the car itself?
MONTENEGRO:
Well, it looks like a junker,
like it's just a bunch
of mismatched parts.
Like Frankenstein's monster,
but the car version.
Yes, but the body
from that monster
is from a 1973 Caprice Classic!
That is the largest model Chevy
ever built.
MONTENEGRO: Geez,
I never realized
you knew so much about cars.
Growing up in a country that
banned imported automobiles
after 1959, you tend to
live a rich fantasy life.
Is it me, or do those tires
look too large for that body?
Well, they're
all-terrain, and...
unlike the rest of the car,
they're relatively new.
Wait. That is not
the original bumper.
Okay, uh, let's run a search.
It's from a '77
Cadillac Coupe de Ville.
FUENTES:
Wow.
That is a heavy, strong bumper.
That car may look
like hell on wheels,
but you can't beat it
in terms of toughness.
So whoever this
mysterious road bandit is...
He built a car
ideal for smashing and crashing.
(Fuentes chuckles)
I know I might lose my
James Beard Award if I say this,
but I honestly think
the simple appeal of diner food
is... timeless.
I'll tell you,
I couldn't agree more, Doc.
Well, unfortunately,
both of your meals are...
filled with saturated fats,
which have been
linked to...
heart disease,
high cholesterol and stroke.
Bones, come on,
we're trying to eat here.
I'm just stating a fact.
I understand that you're
stating a fact, but we
haven't seen Gordon Gordon
in a while here.
We may never
see him again
if he dies of a heart attack.
She doesn't mean that.
Yes, I do. I'd appreciate
(phone chimes)
if you didn't speak for me.
Everything all right,
Agent Booth?
No, it's Aubrey-- it turns out
those fleabag motels
that Dustin visited,
they're all booked
with demolition derby competitors.
Heh! I'm hardly surprised,
given the way they were driving
during the getaway.
Wait, what's a demolition derby?
Oh!
Oh! Oh, my dear,
it's the absolute pinnacle
of American culture.
You get these
old junk-boxes slamming
and smashing into each other,
bursting into flames,
until there's only one
vehicle left standing.
(engines roaring)
See? Bam!
BRENNAN:
That is absolutely barbaric.
Okay, come on. Aubrey says
there's one this weekend.
What do you say, you want
to tag along with me, Doc?
I tell you what.
Hmm?
Why don't you both
go undercover
and compete?
Yeah, that's a...
What do you say, Bones?
No!
No, it's too dangerous.
Especially
with your back ailment.
I'll be fine. Okay.
I'll get over it.
I have no interest in
those childish antics.
Fine. I'll just go by myself.
I didn't think you'd want to
drive one of those cars, anyway.
Why? Because I'm a woman?
I didn't say that.
Tsk, tsk, tsk, tsk, no.
On second thought, I order you
both to participate.
On the one hand, you'll
get a better handle
on who Dustin's accomplice
was if you're on the inside,
and on the other hand, I think
the aggression of the derby
will be rather therapeutic
for you, Dr. Brennan.
Therapeutic,
what do you say, Bones?
I'd say that
Buck and Wanda Moosejaw
have some car shopping to do.
Boom! Yeah.
TRACK ANNOUNCER:
Hey. Sunday, Sunday, Sunday.
Cars are coming to the derby.
♪ Da da da da ♪
♪ Da-da da da da ♪
(engines revving)
♪ I'm-a get it
till it's good and done ♪
♪ Keep fighting
till the war is won ♪
♪ Heart breaking
but it's all for fun ♪
♪ I'm a fast go-getter
like a hit and run... ♪
Wanda, Wanda, Wanda,
What do you say, Wanda?
You ready to kick
some tailpipe ass?
Booth, this is a mistake.
Listen, Bones.
(in Buck character): Yeah.
You got to stay in character
with me, all right?
All right.
- Buck. Honey.
- Yeah. Yep.
This was a mistake.
Honestly,
you think the killer
was stupid enough
to show up here?
Come on,
it's a demolition derby.
Oh. Fair enough.
All right, look.
Just remember what
Gordon Gordon said.
What? That this would
be therapeutic for me?
I find that dubious
to say the least.
Well, take a look around
at the cars and the names
on the cars will
tell us a lot.
I'll keep my eye
out for a car named
Killer Bank Robber
Accomplice.
Bones.
Here. Look, look.
Look at that.
There, right there.
That car there.
BRENNAN: "Filthy Rich." Well, that's a stretch,
BOOTH: Yeah.
but I imagine a bank robber
could name a car that.
Oh, no.
Look at the body, all right?
That's from a '77 Coupe de Ville
and the bumper and the-the doors
are from a '73 Chevy Caprice.
BRENNAN: The two models
that the accomplice's car
was comprised of.
I think we should
go find that driver.
TRACK ANNOUNCER: Be advised, the race
will be starting in five minutes.
Now, to locate
the apprentice's body,
what we need to do first
is to get inside the mind
of Gormogon himself.
You're gonna get into the mind
of a cannibal while eating?
Well, human tastes like chicken.
Okay, one,
that's disgusting.
Two, what if that's
exactly what happened?
What if he just
ate his apprentice?
No, no, no.
I don't think he'd do that.
You see, in Gormogon's eyes,
the apprentice failed him.
He's not as worthy
as our Dr. Addy.
Yeah. Plus, we know that the
body has to be somewhere
in the D.C. area,
because Zack said
when Gormogon left
with the body,
he was only gone
for a few hours.
Yes, but where would he go?
I-I-I don't believe he'd just
deposit him
in some shallow grave.
Like the Masons, Gormogon
was a slave to ritual.
SAROYAN:
Uh, hey.
Sorry to interrupt,
but Dr. Hodgins,
you had something to show me?
Right, yeah.
Cam, so in my initial
examination,
I actually swabbed the victim's
hands and found coconut oil,
argan oil, honey and royal jelly.
WYATT: Ah.
If you added crushed almonds
that would be
a delicious Moroccan dish
called amlou.
Or more likely,
it's a high-end hair oil,
but I found none of that
in the victim's own hair.
Which would suggest
that he put his fingers
in another person's hair
just prior to death.
Huh.
Well, I'll let Booth know.
How are you guys coming?
Swimmingly.
Yeah. Which is the British
stiff upper lip way
of saying
we've got absolutely nothing.
(indistinct chatter)
- Can my sister and I get a selfie?
- Sure.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
Howdy, look at
what we got here.
Well, you must be Filthy Rich.
Yes, I am.
Yeah.
Thank you for noticing.
I'm Buck. This here,
she's Wanda.
Howdy.
Never seen you
around here before.
Is this your first derby?
Oh.
A good friend of ours told us
about this place.
Dustin Doyle... Yeah.
Dustin?
He sold me some parts
for my ride.
(sniffs)
Are you sniffing my hair?
I was just
curious what kind
of product you use.
(laughing):
No product.
Home recipe.
Mayonnaise based.
It's what gives
it its luster.
Mayonnaise.
BUCK: Now don't judge.
It sounds tasty.
Now I'm gonna give you
some advice.
Does it involve condiments?
There's no colluding
in demolition derby.
You think
because we're married
we're gonna team up?
And because you know Dustin.
That boy's a cheat.
Meaning he's colluded before.
He has a partner?
Ray Kimball.
He and Dustin are
as thick as thieves.
Thick as thieves,
like your hair.
Okay, can you move in closer to
the left temporal, por favor?
All right, see those
two cuts on the bone?
They're approximately
the same size
and they appear
to be parallel.
Suggesting Dustin wasn't
struck in the head twice,
but once with an
object that has
a 1.2 centimeter gap in it.
Okay. Zoom in a little bit
closer, please.
There. Just as I suspected.
Both lines have indentations
with a similar zigzag pattern.
Yeah. I don't,
I don't see it.
Okay. Do me a favor. Pull up
an image of a monkey wrench.
Hey.
FUENTES:
Ta-da.
SAROYAN:
Does this mean
our victim was hit
with a wrench
and shot in the gut?
Well, judging by
hemorrhagic staining,
the blow to the face
predated the gunshot
by at least a few hours.
Busy day.
Beaten and shot
and still had time
to run his fingers through
a woman's hair.
FUENTES:
Well, actually,
I am not so sure that it was
a woman's hair
he was holding.
The plot thickens.
Well, it's not what you think.
We ran a simulation.
A simulation of a man
rubbing another man's hair.
FUENTES: Not exactly.
I found bone bruising
on the victim's left patella.
MONTENEGRO:
The move was a Muay Thai
knee strike.
Pow.
Ooh.
That looks painful.
Well, not just painful.
A blow like that
would leave bruising
that should still be evident.
I'll let Aubrey know.
He should be
at the derby by now.
Whoa. Aubrey went
undercover, too?
He's not driving, but I'm sure
whatever he's doing,
he's fully committed
to the part.
(phone rings)
Hello.
Cam. Hey, sorry.
I'm, uh...
So what are you eating?
Funnel cake or a corn dog?
It's, uh, more of a hybrid,
actually. Little bit of both.
What do you got?
Our victim struck
his attacker hard,
so be on the lookout...
Thanks.
...for anyone with bruising
on their face.
Bruising on the face.
Hold on a second.
(car engine revving)
I just located Ray Kimball,
the driver
that Dustin Doyle
was colluding with.
Well, be careful.
From what we can tell,
he struck our victim
with a monkey wrench
before shooting him.
Will do. Thanks.
(engines revving)
Hey.
Hey, man.
How you doing?
Big, big fan.
I got to tell you.
That is one hell of a ride
you got there.
Dude. What are you doing, man?
Get your food off my car.
Ooh. Nice set of tools, too.
There blood on that wrench?
Bro, I don't know who the hell
you think you are,
but if you don't pick that up,
there's gonna be
a hell of a lot more blood
on this wrench.
Put it down. You
don't want to do that.
(scoffs)
(grunts)
You got a dent in your car.
More bad news,
you're under arrest, pal.
All right, Ray.
Why don't you take a seat?
I need to ask you
a few questions.
No, man.
This ain't right.
You didn't tell me you were FBI.
So what, you're saying
it's okay to swing a wrench
at a guy,
as long as he's not
in the bureau?
You mean like you did
with Dustin Doyle.
I don't know what
you're talking about.
You know what I think?
I think that something went
wrong at your last heist.
What?
No. Heist?
- I don't even know what that is.
- Come on.
You don't know what a heist is?
It's like a robbery.
- You know what a robbery is, right?
- Yes.
I mean... not firsthand
or nothing.
Look. This is just
a big misunderstanding, okay?
I mean, maybe I hit Dustin,
but if he's saying
that I heisted a bank...
No. Dustin isn't saying
anything, Ray. Dustin's dead.
I don't believe you.
I think you're
trying to trick me.
Ray, I could trick you
by pretend throwing a ball
and palming it in my hand.
Now, you didn't know that Dustin
was dead, did you?
You're scared.
I'm not scared.
But I'm not saying
another word.
Not until I speak with a lawyer.
Damn it.
We have been
at this all day.
We've got
absolutely nothing.
If you don't watch
your anger, Dr. Hodgins,
I have a good mind
to send you off
to the demolition derby, too.
Sorry. It's just
I promised Zack I
wouldn't let him down.
You know, I-I've been thinking
about you said regarding
Gormogon's love-hate
relationship
with the Freemasons.
What if he did
bury his apprentice
according to Masonic ritual?
Gormogon wouldn't do that
because the apprentice
betrayed him.
No, no, no, no.
He wouldn't dispose of the body
with any kind of reverence,
but what if he employed
some Masonic ritual
that symbolized betrayal?
The apprentice was a traitor,
so-so he didn't put his bones
in the, uh,
Widow's Son skeleton.
Maybe...
Hmm. He also didn't eat them
because, you know, to him, he
was basically poisonous, so...
(gasps)
Th-that's it.
It's the acacia tree.
No. Th-the acacia tree
surely symbolizes, uh,
the immortality
of the soul.
Yes. It does that,
but also the acacia itself
is inedible and poisonous,
which is the
perfect symbol
for a poisonous,
outcast apprentice.
So if we can identify
all the acacia trees
in the local area,
then it's possible that
the apprentice will be buried
in close proximity.
Yeah.
Oh.
I like it.
(laughs)
So I just finished testing the
blood on Ray Kimball's wrench.
It definitely came
from the victim.
Was Aubrey able
to get a confession?
No. I just spoke to him.
He said Ray Kimball
seemed genuinely shocked
to hear Dustin was dead,
and that he seemed scared.
I am not surprised, given
the evidence I found.
Look at the humeral head
of the victim's right arm.
- Is that an avulsion fracture?
- Yes.
And there's a
corresponding fracture
on the left
humerus as well.
SAROYAN :
Which means Dustin's arms
were likely pulled
backwards and held there.
Which explains the lack
of defensive wounds.
Dustin couldn't fight back
because someone was
holding his arms.
Well, and if that was done
at the same time
Ray hit his face
with a wrench...
It points to
a second accomplice.
(chuckles)
Hey, Wanda.
I just got off the
phone with Cam, okay?
She's saying it's likely that
Ray has another partner.
What do you mean, "likely"?
Likely, I mean...
Listen. Aubrey agrees, man.
Ray was really scared
in interrogation. Booth,
I don't want to be here.
I need to get back to the lab.
Nope. Come on.
We got to get going.
The derby's gonna
be starting soon.
Why?
The whole reason we're here
is to solve a case, not to...
pointlessly smash into cars.
All right, look,
my gut is telling me that
we can still find this guy,
that he's out here, all right?
So Gordon Gordon says
it's good for you, too.
Booth.
What?
Demolition derby's not therapy.
It is idiotic and...
and dangerous!
Especially when
you have a hurt back.
Look, my back's fine.
All right?
Look, and these...
these cars are built to
protect you, all right?
Everything's gonna
be fine. Trust me.
All right?
Come on, Bone Crusher.
Get in there, Wanda.
Come on, Wanda-tanda
from Buffalo.
She gonna take
you down, Mad Dog.
Okay, so this is what
you're looking for.
This is a present-day map
of Washington, D.C.
And here are the
original boundary lines
from 1792,
before Virginia reacquired
everything west of the Potomac.
That seems to be
a sort of perfect,
symmetrical diamond.
HODGINS: That's because
the architect of D.C.,
Pierre L'Enfant,
was a Freemason,
and the rhombus is a key symbol.
Excuse me.
Oh, Agent Aubrey.
Look, I hope this isn't
a food-related matter,
because, uh,
it's not a good time.
I'm busy looking
for trees.
What?
HODGINS: Acacia trees.
Angie's plotting
all the acacia trees in D.C.
in case the apprentice
is buried underneath.
Well, that's great,
but believe it or not,
that's not what
I was calling about.
Uh, listen, Doc, I need
your help breaking a suspect.
Booth says that you got
wicked, Jedi-like
ninja powers or something?
MONTENEGRO (chuckling):
Why?
Is the suspect some kind
of, uh, evil genius?
No. He's an idiot,
but there's no way
that he's gonna talk.
WYATT:
All right.
Well, if you'd give me
a moment to
think, yeah?
Well, do it fast, 'cause this
derby's about to start,
and my guess is, by the time
it's over the second accomplice
is gonna be as good as gone.
Angie, would you
do me a favor
and focus on the western side
of the old map?
Okay. Why?
Well, the Freemasons, the west,
with the setting sun represented
finished projects
and death.
Um, Agent Aubrey,
I think I have a solution
for you-- you should
let the idiot go free.
What? No.
At minimum,
the guy's an accessory.
Which is why you should
keep him in your sight,
but first let him lead you
to his partner in crime.
Okay.
(sighs)
Here goes nothing.
(crowd cheering)
What do you say there,
Wanda Bone Crusher, baby?
Hey, Bones, come on.
We got this.
Love you.
MAN: Come on, man!
No more sandbagging
this time, you hear?
Ha-ha!
I'm gonna Mad Dog
all over you, buddy!
(phone ringing)
BOOTH:
This is not a good time.
Booth, I let Ray Kimball go.
What?
AUBREY: Gordon Gordon said
he would lead us
to the other accomplice.
He's making a phone call
as we speak.
Right. Okay.
What's going on, Booth?
Bones,
take a look around
at the other drivers.
See if anyone picks up
their telephone.
(phone rings)
Yeah?
(whispering):
Booth. Booth.
Over there.
In the Big Belly car.
TRACK ANNOUNCER:
Okay, everyone, here we go.
Get your helmets on!
All right, drivers,
start your engines!
(engines revving)
Let's count it down, folks.
Take it from five...
four...
three...
two...
one. Let's derby!
BRENNAN:
Booth, don't let him get away!
(grunts)
(indistinct shouts)
(laughing)
Booth, look! He's trying
to get off the track!
Stop hitting me!
I have important work!
He's heading for the exit!
Booth, it's okay-- I've got him.
Bones, where are you?
(crowd whooping)
Stick with him, Bones!
You got him!
I'm coming for you,
baby, I'm coming, Bones!
(crowd cheering)
(grunts)
(Brennan gasping)
Bones, you okay?
No. Whoo-hoo! I'm fantastic!
(Booth groans)
(whoops) How's your back?
Couldn't be better, Wanda.
(Brennan laughs)
Hey there... Big Belly!
My wife and I have
a few questions for you.
FBI.
(whooping)
Really?
I'm done.
Mr. Dixon, take a look
at the evidence.
We found almost $40,000
in your trailer.
(sighs)
I'm gonna tell you
one more time--
I never killed him.
How is the interrogation going?
Well, he's denying it,
but something's
not right.
I mean, he's clearly guilty.
He had the money
from the bank heist
in his possession.
$20,000 is missing.
Well, most likely,
Ned and Ray spent it.
Well, Ned is saying that Dustin
just only brought him $40,000.
And the bank manager
said that $60,000 was taken.
BOOTH: Which is why they
roughed up Dustin--
'cause they thought
he was holding out.
Then what?
Just... let him go?
(sighs)
Dr. Fuentes.
Dr. Brennan...
that is an interesting
wardrobe you have on.
Thank you. Your new lab coat
looks very nice as well.
Oh, thank you.
You...
Now show me you are worthy
of your new title.
It is quite small, but...
note the hexagonal
crushing fracture
on the victim's
right intermediate cuneiform.
It is an injury
I've seen before.
As have I.
Typically, when a female uses
the heel of her shoe
to stab down on her
assailant's foot.
What is strange is,
both our suspects are men.
Hey, I'm looking for Hodgins.
Have you seen him?
Uh, no.
Not for a couple
of hours.
He went out looking
for potential burial sites
for Gormogon's apprentice.
So far he's zero for four.
Ooh.
SAROYAN:
What are we looking at?
Is this more
bank robbery footage?
MONTENEGRO:
No, not exactly.
Uh, Booth said
something was weird
and asked me to look at
the video surveillance footage
from the day
after the robbery.
Now I think I know why.
Is that the, uh,
victim's car?
Yeah.
Looks like
he came back to the bank
the following day.
That's a hell of a risk.
Yeah. And then, look--
he follows that other car out.
SAROYAN: Wait, can you
get the license plate
on that other car?
I've got the feeling
I know why he came back.
BOOTH:
Ms. Fisher, we had a team
go through your car,
and we found some blood
caked in the trunk.
There, see?
You don't understand,
this isn't my fault.
You knew that Dustin
was gonna rob your bank,
didn't you? You saw him
on surveillance
casing the place.
BOOTH: On the day
of the robbery,
you handed over the $40,000,
but you pocketed $20,000
for yourself.
It was a victimless crime--
the bank is insured
in case they're robbed.
Yeah, but the
only problem is
the bank manager went on TV
and said exactly
how much was taken.
Dustin must have
figured out what you did.
So after he got beaten up
by his accomplices,
he came back to
confront you-- that's when
the two of you struggled
and you shot him.
It was an accident. I...
None of this would have happened
if my idiot boss had just
followed the manual.
Everybody knows you're
not supposed to say how much was stolen.
You're supposed to say
"an undisclosed amount."
If he'd just done
his st-stupid job...
I didn't mean
for this to happen.
BOOTH: I'm telling you,
you should've come with us.
You should've seen Bones.
She was smashing things
left and right,
bam, boom, and she was back!
BRENNAN: I was not back.
Okay.
Wanda, on the other hand,
might have been back.
Wanda?
Wanda's back.
Oh, that's your-your
nom de guerre, is it?
Yes.
And I have to thank you.
You were correct--
the derby was
just what I needed.
WYATT: Well, I'm glad to hear it.
You see, I think it's
very therapeutic
every now and then,
to-to get out of your
proverbial skin, yeah?
Right.
What about you, huh?
Thinking about, I don't know,
hanging up the apron there
and coming back to the bureau
and, uh, shrinking it up a bit?
Agent Booth,
I must admit
that, uh, over the
last few days, I...
I have had a few moments where
I really, really enjoyed myself,
but the fact is, I failed
in my assigned task.
BOOTH:
No, no, you didn't fail.
All right? It was a long shot.
Booth is right.
You did everything you could.
Zack's situation is difficult.
Well, it's very kind of you
to say that.
So... Châteauneuf-Du-Pape
for the next course?
Hey,
if it's the pope's wine,
I'm drinking it.
(phone rings)
BRENNAN: Hold on.
It's Cam.
Hello.
Dr. Brennan, where are you?
We're gonna need you
to come into the lab
as soon as possible.
Um, of course.
Is everything all right?
What's going on, Bones?
Cam, I'm putting you
on speaker.
HODGINS:
Is that her?
Dr. Brennan,
you're on with Hodgins.
Dr. Brennan, want
to make sure you know that Cam
is right here next to me--
I don't want there to be
any chance you think
I've falsified evidence.
I don't understand.
He found the apprentice.
Uh, Dr. Hodgins,
it's Chef G...
it's, uh, Dr. Gordon Wyatt here.
A-Are you sure that it's him?
Hell, yeah, partner.
It's got to be-- the shape
of this thing is the inverse
of a Masonic coffin.
SAROYAN:
Okay, let's open her up.
(grunts)
Oh, wow.
The clothes on this guy
are perfectly preserved.
Dr. Hodgins, look at the cuff
on his right arm.
BRENNAN (on phone): I need you
to tell me
what you see.
I am seeing what appears to be
dried blood.
And if it's from the lobbyist...
Dr. Wyatt...
thank you.
Anything for an old friend.
BRENNAN:
I can't believe it.
Zack might actually
be coming home.
Yeah, Zack could be back.
WYATT: I'll drink to that.
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
@elder_man
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org